####QUESTIONS



1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

*Making coffee:	
	FUNCTION 
	IF coffee machine unplugged
		THEN plug machine in 
	
	IF coffee filter is not in machine
		ADD filter
	ELSE
		ADD desired amount of coffee grounds to filter 
	
	IF water basin is empty
		ADD specified amount of water to basin
	
		
		WHILE coffee is dripping through filter
			let process finish
		
		END WHILE
	
	END IF
	END IF
	END FUNCTION
	
	
	
		

*Washing dishes:
FUNCTION
	IF dirty dishes are in sink 
		plug drain
		add soap 	
		fill sink with hot water
	ELSE 
		relax
	ENDIF

	WHILE sink is not full
		INCREMENT until sink full
	END WHILE
	
	WHILE dirty dish amount is greater than zero
		REPEAT  
			soak dishes in soapy water
			scrub dishes with sponge
			rinse dishes with clean water
			dry dishes with towel
		UNTIL
			dirty dishes equals zero 
	END WHILE
END FUNCTION
			
		

*A choice of your own:

PROGRAM make margarita
	
IF cup empty
	add ice
ENDIF

	WHILE tequila needed
		add two oz of tequila
	ENDWHILE	

	WHILE lime juice needed
		add three oz of lime juice
	ENDWHILE

	WHILE triple sec needed
		add half oz triple sec
	END WHILE

		IF blended preferred
			add to blender
		ELSE
			use shaker tin
		ENDIF
		
		IF salted rim wanted
		add salt to rim
		ELSE
		drink margarita
		ENDIFF
END FUNCTION


		

	


2.As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

	ANSWER:
	
	COMPANY #1:  Society of American Baseball Research created an algorithm for baseball called "Sabermetrics."  This type of statistical analysis began in the 1940s when coaches stared 	to hire statisticians to evaluate player performance.  Researchers began to use ask specific questions based on in game situations, from on base percentage(OBP), runs-created, 	slugging percentage, secondary average, weighted on-base percentage, pitches thrown, number of each pitch thrown, earned runs(ERA) and winning-percentage. They have now been able to 	apply these stats and even predict game outcome for games and specific players, and these predictions are pretty accurate when applied in the long term.  This algorithm was always 	used in some fashion but it became the norm when Billy Beane successfully used Sabermetrics instead of his teams scouts to put together a winning team with a limited budget.  Two 	years later the Boston Red Sox won their first World Series using Beanes' model.  

	COMPANY #2:  McDonalds:  McDonalds was one of the pioneers in the restaurant industry and still today is one of the most profitable and popular food choices for customers.  Their 	algorithm used to keep all their menu items consistent in each and every store around the globe is why it has survived generations.

	COMPANY #3: DOORDASH:  The company is using the algorithm the designed for delivering food to customers to now deliver excess food to food banks.  What excess food once would have 	been thrown out at the end of the night will now be able to be donated to people in need.  Restaurants are able to contact the company and request pick up.  



3.Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

	ANSWER: An efficient algorithm will produce optimal results while maintaining cost efficiency and using the least minimal time.  